README.md, before:

# URI.js #

* [About](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/)
* [Understanding URIs](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/about-uris.html)
* [Documentation](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/docs.html)
* [jQuery URI Plugin](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/jquery-uri-plugin.html)
* [Author](http://rodneyrehm.de/en/)

---

I always want to shoot myself in the head when looking at code like the following:

```javascript
var url = "http://example.org/foo?bar=baz",
    separator = url.indexOf('?') > -1 ? '&' : '?';

url += separator + encodeURIComponent("foo") + "=" + encodeURIComponent("bar");
```

I still can't believe javascript - the f**ing backbone-language of the web - doesn't offer an API for mutating URLs. Browsers (Firefox) don't expose the `Location` object (the structure behind window.location). Yes, one could think of [decomposed IDL attributes](http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/urls.html#url-decomposition-idl-attributes) as a native URL management library. But it relies on the DOM element &lt;a&gt;, it's slow and doesn't offer any convenienve at all.

How about a nice, clean and simple API for mutating URIs:

```javascript
var url = new URI("http://example.org/foo?bar=baz");
url.addQuery("foo", "bar");
```

URI.js is here to help with that.


## API Example ##

```javascript
// mutating URLs
URI("http://example.org/foo.html?hello=world")
    .username("rodneyrehm")
        // -> http://rodneyrehm@example.org/foo.html?hello=world
    .username("")
        // -> http://example.org/foo.html?hello=world
    .directory("bar")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.html?hello=world
    .suffix("xml")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.xml?hello=world
    .query("")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.xml
    .tld("com")
        // -> http://example.com/bar/foo.xml
    .query({ foo: "bar", hello: ["world", "mars"] });
        // -> http://example.com/bar/foo.xml?foo=bar&hello=world&hello=mars

// cleaning things up
URI("?&foo=bar&&foo=bar&foo=baz&")
    .normalizeQuery();
        // -> ?foo=bar&foo=baz

// working with relative paths
URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/world.html");
        // -> ./baz.html

URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html")
        // -> ../baz.html
    .absoluteTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html");
        // -> /foo/bar/baz.html

// URI Templates
URI.expand("/foo/{dir}/{file}", {
  dir: "bar",
  file: "world.html"
});
// -> /foo/bar/world.html
```

See the [About Page](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/) and [API Docs](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/docs.html) for more stuff.


## npm ##

```
npm install URIjs
```


## Server-side JS ##

```javascript
var URI = require('URIjs');

URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html")
// -> ../baz.html
```

## Minify ##

use [Google Closure Compiler](http://closure-compiler.appspot.com/home):

```
// ==ClosureCompiler==
// @compilation_level SIMPLE_OPTIMIZATIONS
// @output_file_name URI.min.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/IPv6.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/punycode.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/SecondLevelDomains.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/URI.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/URITemplate.js
// ==/ClosureCompiler==
```


## Resources ##

Docs where you get more info on parsing and working with URLs

* [Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt) ([superseded by 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986))
* [Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRI)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987)
* [IPv6 Literal Addresses in URL's](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2732.txt) ([superseded by 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986))
* [Punycode - Internationalized Domain Name (IDN)](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3492.txt) ([html version](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492))
* [URI - Reference Resolution](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-5)
* [Parsing URLs for Fun and Profit](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-abarth-url-01)
* [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/interact/forms.html#form-content-type) (Query String Parameters) and [application/x-www-form-urlencoded encoding algorithm](http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/association-of-controls-and-forms.html#application/x-www-form-urlencoded-encoding-algorithm)
* [Naming URL components](http://tantek.com/2011/238/b1/many-ways-slice-url-name-pieces)
* [Java URI Class](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/net/URI.html)
* [Java Inet6Address Class](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/api/java/net/Inet6Address.html)
* [Node.js URL API](http://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/url.html)

[Discussion on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3398837)

### HTML5 URL Draft ###

* [W3C URL Draft](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html)
* [Webkit #71968 - Implement URL API](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=71968)

### MozURLProperty ###

* https://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=14148
* http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/workers.html#workerlocation
* MozURLProperty (not documented yet?!) https://developer.mozilla.org/User:trevorh/Interface_documentation_status

### Alternatives ###

If you don't like URI.js, you may like one of these:

* [The simple <a> URL Mutation "Hack"](http://jsfiddle.net/rodneyrehm/KkGUJ/) ([jsPerf comparison](http://jsperf.com/idl-attributes-vs-uri-js))
* [URI Parser](http://blog.stevenlevithan.com/archives/parseuri)
* [jQuery-URL-Parser](https://github.com/allmarkedup/jQuery-URL-Parser)
* [URL.js](https://github.com/ericf/urljs)
* [furl (Python)](https://github.com/gruns/furl)
* [mediawiki Uri](https://svn.wikimedia.org/viewvc/mediawiki/trunk/phase3/resources/mediawiki/mediawiki.Uri.js?view=markup) (needs mw and jQuery)
* [Google Closure Uri](http://closure-library.googlecode.com/svn/docs/closure_goog_uri_uri.js.html)
* [URI.js by Gary Court](https://github.com/garycourt/uri-js)
* [jurlp](https://github.com/tombonner/jurlp)
* [jsUri](http://code.google.com/p/jsuri/)
* [uri-templates](https://github.com/marc-portier/uri-templates) [jsperf comparison](http://jsperf.com/uri-templates)


## TODO ##

if you want to get involved, these are things you could help out with…

* modifiers for domain, tld, directory, file, suffix are hardly the most performant solutions
* add [Media Fragments](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/18)
* add [:local-link](http://dev.w3.org/csswg/selectors4/#local-pseudo) to jquery.URI.js


## Authors ##

* [Rodney Rehm](https://github.com/rodneyrehm)


## Contains Code From ##

* [punycode.js](http://mths.be/punycode) - Mathias Bynens
* [IPv6.js](http://intermapper.com/support/tools/IPV6-Validator.aspx) - Rich Brown - (rewrite of the original)


## License ##

URI.js is published under the [MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license) and [GPL v3](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0).


## Changelog ##

### upcomming (work in progress...) ###

* fixing URI() constructor passing of `base` ([Issue #33](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/33) [LarryBattle](https://github.com/LarryBattle))
* adding `segment()` accessor ([Issue #34](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/34))
* upgrading `URI.encode()` to strict URI encoding according to RFC3986
* adding `URI.encodeReserved()` to exclude reserved characters (according to RFC3986) from being encoded
* adding [URI Template (RFC 6570)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6570) support with `URITemplate()`

### 1.6.3 (June 24th 2012) ###

* fixing `.absoluteTo()` to join two relative paths properly ([Issue #29](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/29))
* adding `.clone()` to copy an URI instance

### 1.6.2 (June 23rd 2012) ###

* `.directory()` now returns empty string if there is no directory
* fixing `.absoluteTo()` to join two relative paths properly ([Issue #29](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/29))

### 1.6.1 (May 19th 2012) ###

* fixing TypeError on domain() with dot-less hostnames ([Issue #27](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/27))

### 1.6.0 (March 19th 2012) ###

* adding [URN](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3) (`javascript:`, `mailto:`, ...) support
* adding `.scheme()` as alias of `.protocol()`
* adding `.userinfo()` to comply with terminology of [RFC 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3.2.1)
* adding jQuery Plugin `src/jquery.URI.js`
* Fixing relative scheme URLs ([Issue #19](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/19) [byroot](https://github.com/byroot))

### 1.5.0 (February 19th 2012) ###

* adding Second Level Domain (SLD) Support ([Issue #17](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/17))

### 1.4.3 (January 28th 2012) ###

* fixed global scope leakage ([Issue #15](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/15) [mark-rushakoff](https://github.com/mark-rushakoff))

### 1.4.2 (January 25th 2012) ###

* improved CommonJS compatibility ([Issue #14](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/14) [FGRibreau](https://github.com/FGRibreau))

### 1.4.1 (January 21st 2012) ###

* added CommonJS compatibility ([Issue #11](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/11), [Evangenieur](https://github.com/Evangenieur))

### 1.4.0 (January 12th 2012) ###

* added URI.iso8859() and URI.unicode() to switch base charsets ([Issue #10](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/10), [mortenn](https://github.com/))
* added .iso8859() and .unicode() to convert an URI's escape encoding

### 1.3.1 (January 3rd 2011) ###

* Updated Punycode.js to version 0.3.0
* added edge-case tests ("jim")
* fixed edge-cases in .protocol(), .port(), .subdomain(), .domain(), .tld(), .filename()
* fixed parsing of hostname in .hostname()

### 1.3.0 (December 30th 2011) ###

* added .subdomain() convenience accessor
* improved internal deferred build handling
* fixed thrown Error for `URI("http://example.org").query(true)` ([Issue #6](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/6))
* added examples for extending URI.js for fragment abuse, see src/URI.fragmentQuery.js and src/URI.fragmentURI.js ([Issue #2](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/2))

### 1.2.0 (December 29th 2011) ###

* added .equals() for URL comparison
* proper encoding/decoding for .pathname(), .directory(), .filename() and .suffix() according to [RFC 3986 3.3](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3.3)
* escape spaces in query strings with `+` according to [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/interact/forms.html#form-content-type)
* allow URI.buildQuery() to build duplicate key=value combinations
* added URI(string, string) constructor to conform with the [specification](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#constructor)
* added .readable() for humanly readable representation of encoded URIs
* fixed bug where @ in pathname would be parsed as part of the authority

### 1.1.0 (December 28th 2011) ###

* URI.withinString()
* added .normalizeProtocol() to lowercase protocols
* made .normalizeHostname() lowercase hostnames
* replaced String.substr() by String.substring() ([Issue #1](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/1))
* parse "?foo" to `{foo: null}` [Algorithm for collecting URL parameters](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#collect-url-parameters)
* build `{foo: null, bar: ""}` to "?foo&bar=" [Algorithm for serializing URL parameters](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#url-parameter-serialization)
* fixed RegExp escaping

### 1.0.0 (December 27th 2011) ###

* Initial URI.js

Commit message:

adding build tool (muhaha, build tool! urm what?)

README.md, after:

# URI.js #

* [About](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/)
* [Understanding URIs](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/about-uris.html)
* [Documentation](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/docs.html)
* [jQuery URI Plugin](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/jquery-uri-plugin.html)
* [Author](http://rodneyrehm.de/en/)

---

I always want to shoot myself in the head when looking at code like the following:

```javascript
var url = "http://example.org/foo?bar=baz",
    separator = url.indexOf('?') > -1 ? '&' : '?';

url += separator + encodeURIComponent("foo") + "=" + encodeURIComponent("bar");
```

I still can't believe javascript - the f**ing backbone-language of the web - doesn't offer an API for mutating URLs. Browsers (Firefox) don't expose the `Location` object (the structure behind window.location). Yes, one could think of [decomposed IDL attributes](http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/urls.html#url-decomposition-idl-attributes) as a native URL management library. But it relies on the DOM element &lt;a&gt;, it's slow and doesn't offer any convenienve at all.

How about a nice, clean and simple API for mutating URIs:

```javascript
var url = new URI("http://example.org/foo?bar=baz");
url.addQuery("foo", "bar");
```

URI.js is here to help with that.


## API Example ##

```javascript
// mutating URLs
URI("http://example.org/foo.html?hello=world")
    .username("rodneyrehm")
        // -> http://rodneyrehm@example.org/foo.html?hello=world
    .username("")
        // -> http://example.org/foo.html?hello=world
    .directory("bar")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.html?hello=world
    .suffix("xml")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.xml?hello=world
    .query("")
        // -> http://example.org/bar/foo.xml
    .tld("com")
        // -> http://example.com/bar/foo.xml
    .query({ foo: "bar", hello: ["world", "mars"] });
        // -> http://example.com/bar/foo.xml?foo=bar&hello=world&hello=mars

// cleaning things up
URI("?&foo=bar&&foo=bar&foo=baz&")
    .normalizeQuery();
        // -> ?foo=bar&foo=baz

// working with relative paths
URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/world.html");
        // -> ./baz.html

URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html")
        // -> ../baz.html
    .absoluteTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html");
        // -> /foo/bar/baz.html

// URI Templates
URI.expand("/foo/{dir}/{file}", {
  dir: "bar",
  file: "world.html"
});
// -> /foo/bar/world.html
```

See the [About Page](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/) and [API Docs](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/docs.html) for more stuff.


## npm ##

```
npm install URIjs
```


## Server-side JS ##

```javascript
var URI = require('URIjs');

URI("/foo/bar/baz.html")
    .relativeTo("/foo/bar/sub/world.html")
// -> ../baz.html
```

## Minify ##

See the [build tool](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/build.html) or use [Google Closure Compiler](http://closure-compiler.appspot.com/home):

```
// ==ClosureCompiler==
// @compilation_level SIMPLE_OPTIMIZATIONS
// @output_file_name URI.min.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/IPv6.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/punycode.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/SecondLevelDomains.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/URI.js
// @code_url http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/src/URITemplate.js
// ==/ClosureCompiler==
```


## Resources ##

Docs where you get more info on parsing and working with URLs

* [Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt) ([superseded by 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986))
* [Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRI)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987)
* [IPv6 Literal Addresses in URL's](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2732.txt) ([superseded by 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986))
* [Punycode - Internationalized Domain Name (IDN)](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3492.txt) ([html version](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492))
* [URI - Reference Resolution](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-5)
* [Parsing URLs for Fun and Profit](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-abarth-url-01)
* [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/interact/forms.html#form-content-type) (Query String Parameters) and [application/x-www-form-urlencoded encoding algorithm](http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/association-of-controls-and-forms.html#application/x-www-form-urlencoded-encoding-algorithm)
* [Naming URL components](http://tantek.com/2011/238/b1/many-ways-slice-url-name-pieces)
* [Java URI Class](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/net/URI.html)
* [Java Inet6Address Class](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/api/java/net/Inet6Address.html)
* [Node.js URL API](http://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/url.html)

[Discussion on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3398837)

### HTML5 URL Draft ###

* [W3C URL Draft](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html)
* [Webkit #71968 - Implement URL API](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=71968)

### MozURLProperty ###

* https://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=14148
* http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/workers.html#workerlocation
* MozURLProperty (not documented yet?!) https://developer.mozilla.org/User:trevorh/Interface_documentation_status

### Alternatives ###

If you don't like URI.js, you may like one of these:

* [The simple <a> URL Mutation "Hack"](http://jsfiddle.net/rodneyrehm/KkGUJ/) ([jsPerf comparison](http://jsperf.com/idl-attributes-vs-uri-js))
* [URI Parser](http://blog.stevenlevithan.com/archives/parseuri)
* [jQuery-URL-Parser](https://github.com/allmarkedup/jQuery-URL-Parser)
* [URL.js](https://github.com/ericf/urljs)
* [furl (Python)](https://github.com/gruns/furl)
* [mediawiki Uri](https://svn.wikimedia.org/viewvc/mediawiki/trunk/phase3/resources/mediawiki/mediawiki.Uri.js?view=markup) (needs mw and jQuery)
* [Google Closure Uri](http://closure-library.googlecode.com/svn/docs/closure_goog_uri_uri.js.html)
* [URI.js by Gary Court](https://github.com/garycourt/uri-js)
* [jurlp](https://github.com/tombonner/jurlp)
* [jsUri](http://code.google.com/p/jsuri/)
* [uri-templates](https://github.com/marc-portier/uri-templates) [jsperf comparison](http://jsperf.com/uri-templates)


## TODO ##

if you want to get involved, these are things you could help out with…

* modifiers for domain, tld, directory, file, suffix are hardly the most performant solutions
* add [Media Fragments](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/18)
* add [:local-link](http://dev.w3.org/csswg/selectors4/#local-pseudo) to jquery.URI.js


## Authors ##

* [Rodney Rehm](https://github.com/rodneyrehm)


## Contains Code From ##

* [punycode.js](http://mths.be/punycode) - Mathias Bynens
* [IPv6.js](http://intermapper.com/support/tools/IPV6-Validator.aspx) - Rich Brown - (rewrite of the original)


## License ##

URI.js is published under the [MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license) and [GPL v3](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0).


## Changelog ##

### upcomming (work in progress...) ###

* fixing URI() constructor passing of `base` ([Issue #33](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/33) [LarryBattle](https://github.com/LarryBattle))
* adding `segment()` accessor ([Issue #34](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/34))
* upgrading `URI.encode()` to strict URI encoding according to RFC3986
* adding `URI.encodeReserved()` to exclude reserved characters (according to RFC3986) from being encoded
* adding [URI Template (RFC 6570)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6570) support with `URITemplate()`

### 1.6.3 (June 24th 2012) ###

* fixing `.absoluteTo()` to join two relative paths properly ([Issue #29](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/29))
* adding `.clone()` to copy an URI instance

### 1.6.2 (June 23rd 2012) ###

* `.directory()` now returns empty string if there is no directory
* fixing `.absoluteTo()` to join two relative paths properly ([Issue #29](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/29))

### 1.6.1 (May 19th 2012) ###

* fixing TypeError on domain() with dot-less hostnames ([Issue #27](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/27))

### 1.6.0 (March 19th 2012) ###

* adding [URN](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3) (`javascript:`, `mailto:`, ...) support
* adding `.scheme()` as alias of `.protocol()`
* adding `.userinfo()` to comply with terminology of [RFC 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3.2.1)
* adding jQuery Plugin `src/jquery.URI.js`
* Fixing relative scheme URLs ([Issue #19](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/19) [byroot](https://github.com/byroot))

### 1.5.0 (February 19th 2012) ###

* adding Second Level Domain (SLD) Support ([Issue #17](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/17))

### 1.4.3 (January 28th 2012) ###

* fixed global scope leakage ([Issue #15](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/15) [mark-rushakoff](https://github.com/mark-rushakoff))

### 1.4.2 (January 25th 2012) ###

* improved CommonJS compatibility ([Issue #14](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/14) [FGRibreau](https://github.com/FGRibreau))

### 1.4.1 (January 21st 2012) ###

* added CommonJS compatibility ([Issue #11](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/11), [Evangenieur](https://github.com/Evangenieur))

### 1.4.0 (January 12th 2012) ###

* added URI.iso8859() and URI.unicode() to switch base charsets ([Issue #10](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/10), [mortenn](https://github.com/))
* added .iso8859() and .unicode() to convert an URI's escape encoding

### 1.3.1 (January 3rd 2011) ###

* Updated Punycode.js to version 0.3.0
* added edge-case tests ("jim")
* fixed edge-cases in .protocol(), .port(), .subdomain(), .domain(), .tld(), .filename()
* fixed parsing of hostname in .hostname()

### 1.3.0 (December 30th 2011) ###

* added .subdomain() convenience accessor
* improved internal deferred build handling
* fixed thrown Error for `URI("http://example.org").query(true)` ([Issue #6](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/6))
* added examples for extending URI.js for fragment abuse, see src/URI.fragmentQuery.js and src/URI.fragmentURI.js ([Issue #2](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/2))

### 1.2.0 (December 29th 2011) ###

* added .equals() for URL comparison
* proper encoding/decoding for .pathname(), .directory(), .filename() and .suffix() according to [RFC 3986 3.3](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3.3)
* escape spaces in query strings with `+` according to [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/interact/forms.html#form-content-type)
* allow URI.buildQuery() to build duplicate key=value combinations
* added URI(string, string) constructor to conform with the [specification](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#constructor)
* added .readable() for humanly readable representation of encoded URIs
* fixed bug where @ in pathname would be parsed as part of the authority

### 1.1.0 (December 28th 2011) ###

* URI.withinString()
* added .normalizeProtocol() to lowercase protocols
* made .normalizeHostname() lowercase hostnames
* replaced String.substr() by String.substring() ([Issue #1](https://github.com/medialize/URI.js/issues/1))
* parse "?foo" to `{foo: null}` [Algorithm for collecting URL parameters](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#collect-url-parameters)
* build `{foo: null, bar: ""}` to "?foo&bar=" [Algorithm for serializing URL parameters](http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/url/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#url-parameter-serialization)
* fixed RegExp escaping

### 1.0.0 (December 27th 2011) ###

* Initial URI.js
